The last key feature we'll discuss is how Spring Boot takes an
opinionated view of building Spring-based applications.
As I mentioned earlier, don't think of this as a bad thing,
like, you must do it this way, or you must do it that way,
or else.
When you're building Java applications, you have tons of choices,
everything from the type of web framework,
to the logging framework, to the collection framework,
to the build tool you use and so on.
If a developer is new to this space, the choices can be certainly overwhelming.
And even if they're not new,
they usually end up making the same choices based on
established standards and popularity.
Spring Boot helps remove this burden so that the developer
can get up and running as fast as possible,
which in turn means they spend more time focusing on
writing code that actually solves a need.
And although Spring Boot is opinionated in its choices and setup,
it's really more of a soft opinion because it makes it easy to
override any of those pre-determined choices.
To give you an example, let's open up a web browser and visit start.
spring.
io.
This is a tool provided by Spring Boot called Spring Initializer,
and Spring Initializer is a great example of how developers
can take advantage of Spring Boot's opinionated setup and get
started as quickly as possible.
The developer simply tells it what type of functionality they need,
such as web, or security, or JDBC databases,
they click Generate project,
and it automatically creates and downloads a
fully-functional Spring Boot application.
The developer can then unzip this and use it as an initial starting point for their application.